Welcome back.
We started with an idea and using this idea we started learning about object oriented programming and
how we can use the programming paradigm to better our code to make it more organized and when it comes
to Opie inadvertently.
You just learned the four pillars of object oriented programming.
The first one was encapsulation before Opie.
We have procedural programming and unlike procedural programming where we just have functions modifying
data with no real structure O P puts things in an object in a container and organizes things into units
that model real world applications.
This is encapsulation.
We wrap code into boxes that are related to one another so that these boxes can just interact with each
other using the methods and properties that we make available.
This makes code easier to maintain and more reusable right.
We have all these nice little class packages that we can just use whenever we want.
The next pillar is abstraction what is abstraction.
Abstraction means just hiding the complexity from the user that is creating simpler interfaces such
as Hey I'll take care of the class all you do is instantiate a class and there you go poof.
You have an elf with all the properties and methods already and for you and the idea of abstraction
says hey here are the methods and properties that you can use.
Don't worry about everything else.
I'll do all the calculations behind the scenes.
This reduces complexity because we can just see the methods and understand what this class can do.
Now the idea of abstraction also helps when we have private variables and private methods something
that JavaScript is working towards.
The next one is a big one.
It's inheritance and we saw this already right by inheriting from other classes.
We avoid having to rewrite the same code and we also save memory space by having shared methods.
Inheritance is a very very important and powerful concept and it's definitely my favorite part of 0
P.
And then finally this is a big one and a big word that it's poly more fearsome.
What does that mean.
Well the word itself means many forms poorly morphing them.
Now the definition of polymorphism is actually heavily debated.
There's many interpretation of what it means but the idea is the ability to call the same method on
different objects and each object responding in different way.
That is poorly more.
For example in my elf and ogre class let's say that they each have different ways of attacking for example
the ELF attacks with let's call this cry and it's going to return attack with this dot cry.
And then let's say that the ogre has attack but the ogre doesn't really accept a parameter instead is
just going to return ah like a part if I now go down and let's change this up and let's do Dobie attack
and we'll give it.
The cry will be we if I run this
I get undefined.
Let's see where we made the mistake because I did this dog cry.
But this isn't part or a property of the class.
Instead is just a parameter so we don't need the this keyword.
If I click Run attack with we and with Shrek if I do Shrek dot attack without a parameter I get R and
this is a very basic explanation of what polymorphism means.
But the idea of ability to appear in many forms that is we're simply doing method overwriting like this
where the same method acts differently for each type of class.
Or we can do method overloading which is adding extra features or extra parameters to a method to add
on to what that method can do and the idea with polymorphism in object oriented programming is that
it has the ability to process object differently depending on their data type or class.
Now because javascript is a dynamically typed language it actually limits the amount of polymorphism
that we can have but the idea is still the same.
The ability to redefine methods for derived classes in allowing us to reuse some of the functionality
but also customize methods to their own objects and classes and polymorphism is useful because we don't
have to necessarily copy and paste code over and over.
We can reuse some of the functionality from a superclass to adapt to our own specific needs and these
are the four pillars of object oriented programming and behind the scenes.
Although these are big words we've been using them all along because with these four things in mind
we accomplished the goal that we set out to do at the beginning of the section.
We created code that is clear and understandable.
We create a code that is easy to extend.
We definitely saw that with the extend keyword.
It's easy to maintain because well we don't have to worry about those prototype chains.
We don't have to keep the prototype property which got really confusing.
We just used simple classes contained everything into its own parts.
Everything inherits from a superclass.
If we have to make a modification on a method we can just modify it in one location.
We also learn how memory efficient it is especially in JavaScript where objects use references instead
of cloning and copying each other and then finally we're able to make our code dry.
We didn't keep repeating ourselves and using the same method over and over for each object.
Instead we had one place where we could create functionality and if you can see that congratulations
you've just learned a programming paradigm away for you now to think about code in a critical intelligent
way to structure your code instead of just writing code one by one line by line.
You now have a baseline to start thinking about the code how should you organize it.
How should different things speak to one another in order to create programs that have all these qualities
in mind.
I'll see in the next one by.